README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# 🚀 AI Crypto Advisor - Backend API

### *Intelligent Cryptocurrency Advisory Platform*

[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-18+-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)](https://nodejs.org/)
[![Express](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express-4.18-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=white)](https://expressjs.com/)
[![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-7.0-47A248?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)](https://www.mongodb.com/)
[![JWT](https://img.shields.io/badge/JWT-Auth-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=jsonwebtokens&logoColor=white)](https://jwt.io/)

The server-side application for the AI Crypto Advisor dashboard. This REST API handles user authentication, data persistence (preferences, votes), and secure communication with the MongoDB database.

[Features](#-features) • [Installation](#️-installation--local-setup) • [API Endpoints](#-api-endpoints) • [Deployment](#-deployment) • [Database Access](#-db-access-for-reviewers)

</div>

---

## ✨ Features

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">

### 🔐 **Secure Authentication**
- JWT-based token authentication
- Bcrypt password encryption
- Protected API routes

</td>
<td width="50%">

### 📊 **Real-time Data**
- Live cryptocurrency prices
- Crypto news aggregation
- AI-powered insights

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="50%">

### 👤 **User Management**
- User registration & login
- Personalized preferences
- Feedback tracking system

</td>
<td width="50%">

### ⚡ **Performance**
- Intelligent caching
- Optimized API calls
- Error handling & fallbacks

</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

<div align="center">

| Category | Technology |
|----------|-----------|
| **Runtime** | ![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Node.js-339933?style=flat-square&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) |
| **Framework** | ![Express](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Express.js-000000?style=flat-square&logo=express&logoColor=white) |
| **Database** | ![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MongoDB-47A248?style=flat-square&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white) ![Mongoose](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Mongoose-880000?style=flat-square) |
| **Authentication** | ![JWT](https://img.shields.io/badge/-JWT-000000?style=flat-square&logo=jsonwebtokens&logoColor=white) |
| **Security** | ![bcryptjs](https://img.shields.io/badge/-bcryptjs-338844?style=flat-square) ![CORS](https://img.shields.io/badge/-CORS-FF6C37?style=flat-square) |
| **External APIs** | CoinGecko • CryptoPanic • Hugging Face AI |

</div>

---

## ⚙️ Installation & Local Setup

### Prerequisites
```
✓ Node.js (v18 or higher)
✓ MongoDB Atlas account
✓ Git installed
```

### 🚀 Quick Start

<details>
<summary><b>1. Clone the repository</b></summary>

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Omri-Gendler/Moveo---backend.git
cd Moveo---backend
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>2. Install dependencies</b></summary>

```bash
npm install
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>3. Environment Variables</b></summary>

Create a `.env` file in the root directory:

```env
# Server Configuration
PORT=5000
NODE_ENV=development

# Database
MONGO_URI=<YOUR_ADMIN_CONNECTION_STRING>

# Authentication
JWT_SECRET=your_super_secret_key_here

# External APIs
NEWS_API_KEY=<YOUR_CRYPTOPANIC_KEY>
HF_API_KEY=<YOUR_HUGGINGFACE_KEY>
```

> **Note:** Never commit the `.env` file to version control
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>4. Run the server</b></summary>

**Development mode:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

**Production mode:**
```bash
npm start
```

The server will start on `http://localhost:5000` 🎉
</details>

---

## 📡 API Endpoints

### 🔐 Authentication

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `POST` | `/api/auth/register` | Register a new user | ❌ |
| `POST` | `/api/auth/login` | Login and receive JWT | ❌ |
| `GET` | `/api/auth/me` | Get current user info | ✅ |

<details>
<summary><b>Example: Register User</b></summary>

```json
POST /api/auth/register
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "fullName": "John Doe",
  "email": "john@example.com",
  "password": "securePassword123"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "message": "User registered successfully",
  "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...",
  "user": {
    "id": "507f1f77bcf86cd799439011",
    "fullName": "John Doe",
    "email": "john@example.com"
  }
}
```
</details>

### 📊 Dashboard

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `GET` | `/api/dashboard` | Fetch crypto data, news & AI insights | ❌ |

<details>
<summary><b>Example: Get Dashboard Data</b></summary>

```json
GET /api/dashboard

Response:
{
  "news": [...],      // Latest crypto news
  "coins": [...],     // Top 10 crypto prices
  "aiInsight": "...", // AI-generated advice
  "meme": {...}       // Random crypto meme
}
```
</details>

### 💬 Feedback

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `POST` | `/api/feedback` | Submit user vote (up/down) | ✅ |
| `GET` | `/api/feedback` | Get user's feedback history | ✅ |

### ⚙️ Preferences

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `GET` | `/api/preferences` | Get user preferences | ✅ |
| `PUT` | `/api/preferences` | Update user preferences | ✅ |

### 🏥 Health Check

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `GET` | `/health` | Server status check | ❌ |

---

## 🚀 Deployment

### Live Application

<div align="center">

[![Render](https://img.shields.io/badge/Deployed%20on-Render-46E3B7?style=for-the-badge&logo=render&logoColor=white)](https://render.com)

**🌐 Backend URL:** `https://moveo-backend.onrender.com`

**📦 GitHub Repository:** [Omri-Gendler/Moveo---backend](https://github.com/Omri-Gendler/Moveo---backend)

</div>

### Deployment Configuration

The application uses `render.yaml` for automatic deployment configuration. All environment variables are securely stored in Render's dashboard.

> **⚠️ Free Tier Note:** The service may spin down after 15 minutes of inactivity and take 30-60 seconds to restart.

---

## 🔐 DB Access for Reviewers

<div align="center">

### MongoDB Atlas - Read-Only Access

For verification purposes, a **read-only** MongoDB connection will be provided separately for security reasons.

</div>

**Database Structure:**

| Database | Collections |
|----------|------------|
| **test** | users, userpreferences, feedbacks |

**To Request Access:**
- Contact the repository owner for secure read-only credentials
- Credentials are not published publicly for security reasons
- Access will be provided through secure channels

**What You Can Verify:**
- User registration and authentication data
- User preferences storage
- Feedback tracking system
- Data schema and relationships

</div>

Commit message:

docs: update README with secure read-only MongoDB access details and usage instructions

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# 🚀 AI Crypto Advisor - Backend API

### *Intelligent Cryptocurrency Advisory Platform*

[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-18+-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)](https://nodejs.org/)
[![Express](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express-4.18-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=white)](https://expressjs.com/)
[![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-7.0-47A248?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)](https://www.mongodb.com/)
[![JWT](https://img.shields.io/badge/JWT-Auth-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=jsonwebtokens&logoColor=white)](https://jwt.io/)

The server-side application for the AI Crypto Advisor dashboard. This REST API handles user authentication, data persistence (preferences, votes), and secure communication with the MongoDB database.

[Features](#-features) • [Installation](#️-installation--local-setup) • [API Endpoints](#-api-endpoints) • [Deployment](#-deployment) • [Database Access](#-db-access-for-reviewers)

</div>

---

## ✨ Features

<table>
<tr>
<td width="50%">

### 🔐 **Secure Authentication**
- JWT-based token authentication
- Bcrypt password encryption
- Protected API routes

</td>
<td width="50%">

### 📊 **Real-time Data**
- Live cryptocurrency prices
- Crypto news aggregation
- AI-powered insights

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="50%">

### 👤 **User Management**
- User registration & login
- Personalized preferences
- Feedback tracking system

</td>
<td width="50%">

### ⚡ **Performance**
- Intelligent caching
- Optimized API calls
- Error handling & fallbacks

</td>
</tr>
</table>

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

<div align="center">

| Category | Technology |
|----------|-----------|
| **Runtime** | ![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Node.js-339933?style=flat-square&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) |
| **Framework** | ![Express](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Express.js-000000?style=flat-square&logo=express&logoColor=white) |
| **Database** | ![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/-MongoDB-47A248?style=flat-square&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white) ![Mongoose](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Mongoose-880000?style=flat-square) |
| **Authentication** | ![JWT](https://img.shields.io/badge/-JWT-000000?style=flat-square&logo=jsonwebtokens&logoColor=white) |
| **Security** | ![bcryptjs](https://img.shields.io/badge/-bcryptjs-338844?style=flat-square) ![CORS](https://img.shields.io/badge/-CORS-FF6C37?style=flat-square) |
| **External APIs** | CoinGecko • CryptoPanic • Hugging Face AI |

</div>

---

## ⚙️ Installation & Local Setup

### Prerequisites
```
✓ Node.js (v18 or higher)
✓ MongoDB Atlas account
✓ Git installed
```

### 🚀 Quick Start

<details>
<summary><b>1. Clone the repository</b></summary>

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Omri-Gendler/Moveo---backend.git
cd Moveo---backend
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>2. Install dependencies</b></summary>

```bash
npm install
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>3. Environment Variables</b></summary>

Create a `.env` file in the root directory:

```env
# Server Configuration
PORT=5000
NODE_ENV=development

# Database
MONGO_URI=<YOUR_ADMIN_CONNECTION_STRING>

# Authentication
JWT_SECRET=your_super_secret_key_here

# External APIs
NEWS_API_KEY=<YOUR_CRYPTOPANIC_KEY>
HF_API_KEY=<YOUR_HUGGINGFACE_KEY>
```

> **Note:** Never commit the `.env` file to version control
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>4. Run the server</b></summary>

**Development mode:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

**Production mode:**
```bash
npm start
```

The server will start on `http://localhost:5000` 🎉
</details>

---

## 📡 API Endpoints

### 🔐 Authentication

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `POST` | `/api/auth/register` | Register a new user | ❌ |
| `POST` | `/api/auth/login` | Login and receive JWT | ❌ |
| `GET` | `/api/auth/me` | Get current user info | ✅ |

<details>
<summary><b>Example: Register User</b></summary>

```json
POST /api/auth/register
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "fullName": "John Doe",
  "email": "john@example.com",
  "password": "securePassword123"
}
```

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "message": "User registered successfully",
  "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...",
  "user": {
    "id": "507f1f77bcf86cd799439011",
    "fullName": "John Doe",
    "email": "john@example.com"
  }
}
```
</details>

### 📊 Dashboard

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `GET` | `/api/dashboard` | Fetch crypto data, news & AI insights | ❌ |

<details>
<summary><b>Example: Get Dashboard Data</b></summary>

```json
GET /api/dashboard

Response:
{
  "news": [...],      // Latest crypto news
  "coins": [...],     // Top 10 crypto prices
  "aiInsight": "...", // AI-generated advice
  "meme": {...}       // Random crypto meme
}
```
</details>

### 💬 Feedback

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `POST` | `/api/feedback` | Submit user vote (up/down) | ✅ |
| `GET` | `/api/feedback` | Get user's feedback history | ✅ |

### ⚙️ Preferences

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `GET` | `/api/preferences` | Get user preferences | ✅ |
| `PUT` | `/api/preferences` | Update user preferences | ✅ |

### 🏥 Health Check

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `GET` | `/health` | Server status check | ❌ |

---

## 🚀 Deployment

### Live Application

<div align="center">

[![Render](https://img.shields.io/badge/Deployed%20on-Render-46E3B7?style=for-the-badge&logo=render&logoColor=white)](https://render.com)

**🌐 Backend URL:** `https://moveo-backend.onrender.com`

**📦 GitHub Repository:** [Omri-Gendler/Moveo---backend](https://github.com/Omri-Gendler/Moveo---backend)

</div>

### Deployment Configuration

The application uses `render.yaml` for automatic deployment configuration. All environment variables are securely stored in Render's dashboard.

> **⚠️ Free Tier Note:** The service may spin down after 15 minutes of inactivity and take 30-60 seconds to restart.

---

## 🔐 DB Access for Reviewers

**Role:** Read-Only Guest (Safe for public review)

> **📌 Security Note:** I'm aware that including credentials in a public repository is not a best practice. However, for your convenience during the review process, I've created a dedicated **read-only guest account** with restricted permissions. This account can only view data and cannot modify, delete, or perform any write operations, ensuring there's no security risk or data leakage.

To verify user registration, preferences, and feedback persistence, please use the following connection string with **MongoDB Compass**:

```text
mongodb+srv://moveo_guest:Moveo_Boost2026@stations.yvgiuub.mongodb.net/test?appName=stations
```
### What You Can Explore:

| Database | Collections | Description |
|----------|------------|-------------|
| **test** | `users` | User registration data with encrypted passwords |
| **test** | `userpreferences` | User-specific preferences and settings |
| **test** | `feedbacks` | User feedback votes on dashboard sections |

**Permissions:** This guest account has **read-only** access and cannot perform any write, update, or delete operations.
